The question was Node.js was originally
created from Chrome's V8 runtime,
and that's what it runs on.
But if the Chrome team decides that, hey,
we're gonna make something called V9,
what's gonna happen to Node?
Is Node gonna stay up to date with
that new engine that Chrome is doing?
So there's a whole board,
there's a working group of individuals who
are responsible for what's coming to
Node and what's happening with Node.
In fact, there's a lot of history there,
a lot of controversial history.
At one point the community
split off from Node and
made this other thing called IO.js and
then it came back.
It's pretty crazy, it's a lot of drama
there, but it seems to have settled,
it seems to have stabilized, and
it seems that they're actually doing
really good by getting these versions out.
Because for
a long time we were on version 0.12 for
years, they didn't release version 1 and
it took them a long time to do that.
So anyway, I think what they're gonna
do is that they have a process of
what makes sense to bring into Node and
what doesn't.
Because they can't bring everything
because a lot of the optimizations that
happened in the browser are browser
specific optimizations and
have nothing to do with Node and
vice versa.
Node has probably a lot of more security
issues that they have to work around,
the different things like that that
don't mean anything to the browser.
So I think when it comes to stuff
like global JavaScript features that
are independent of an environment
like modules, or syntax,
you can expect those things
to come back to Node.js.
Which is why I wanted us to download
version 14 because we do have some of
those new syntax features.
But when it comes to
environment specific features,
do not expect those to be able
to be used inside of Node.js.
The question was, well, what
are the differences between version one of
this course and
version two of this course?
Version two is gonna be using
the absolute latest version of Node.
And compare that to the version
one of this course, so
much has changed from the module,
syntax as you'll find out
to how you even execute different files
and how you test different things.
So new tools, new syntax, new execution
patterns, and really just, me I've grown
as an engineer since I've taught this
course last and I have different opinions.
I have different ways about building
things and I want to share those with you
all, and hopefully they're valuable to
you, so a combination of all of those.
The question was what's
my opinion on Deno?
I feel like Deno has a lot of potential.
I do see some of the shortcomings of Node.
So if you don't know what Deno is,
Deno is a new runtime created.
So it's a JavaScript runtime or
technically it's a TypeScript runtime
that's very similar to Node.js.
So it's an OS level language like Node.js
where you can build things like C allies,
and servers, and stuff like that.
But they do things differently
as far as how you import and
use packages, how you bundle them.
It basically takes some of the best
packages that you would have to find,
research, and install yourself in
Node.js and makes them available by
default natively inside of their
runtime so you don't have to do that.
So things like testing, things like
bundling, you kind of get that for free.
Whereas Node.js as you'll find out,
you gotta go shopping for that,
you gotta figure out, well,
what's the best testing library?
What's the best framework?
What's the best server thing?
Well, Deno kinda figures
all that stuff out for you.
It has a more modern approach
about how to build applications.
And it's benefiting off
of the community and
all the patterns that have developed
over Node over the last ten years.
So it's just like a combination of
everything that was great about Node that
the community had to make and
then let's just put it into this thing and
call it Deno.
So I do think it has a lot of potential.
I don't think it's gonna replace Node,
Node is everywhere.
There's so much stuff built on Node that
I find it hard that something's gonna
come and replace it, but
I do think there's room for Deno.
If you're gonna go out there and build
something greenfield, something brand new,
and you don't wanna go shopping for
all this stuff, yeah, Deno could be it.
The only limitation there is,
what's available for you?
I would say one of the biggest
features of Node.js is the fact that
the communities is huge.
It's like a double edged sword, it's like,
yeah, you got to go find everything, but
there's a lot of stuff that you can
go through it, it's very helpful.
So I think if a community can develop
around Deno and everything goes well,
then there's probably potential,
but I would say for now,
Node.js isn't going anywhere,
but Deno does seem promising.
And I've actually used it, and
I tried all the time, and I like it.
The question was testing in Node.js,
where sometimes we have
to test browser specific things
like the DOM in Node.js.
And can we do that in Node,
and the question is, yes.
And I know that sounds confusing
because I just said there's no browser
specific stuff in Node,
and that's still true.
But because Node has a thriving community,
people have developed mock
implementations of the DOM.
They have developed virtual
implementations of the DOM to where
your browser based code
knows no difference.
It's the same to it,
so it can be executed.
In some cases, it can be rendered if it's
like a JavaScript framework on the server.
So yes, you are able to run a lot
of that stuff on the server and
at least the functionality of it.
You shouldn't expect to visually see
something because that still has to be
processed by a browser even if Node is the
thing that's sending it to the browser,
and processing it, and taking
a screenshot or something like that.
But yes, you still have to go through a
browser if you wanna see a visual output.
But as far as testing the logic,
testing the DOM, things like that, yeah,
at the end of the day, the DOM when
it's rendered is just a string.
So yeah, Node can handle strings, so yes,
you can totally test
DOM things in Node.js.